 Your Full Extraction Pipeline (Refined)
🔹Step 1: Extract All States
Goal: Extract all states (big or small) from the given procedure — strictly text-grounded.

Prompt:

Extract all the states involved in the [procedure name] on the UE side from the following section of the 3GPP specification.
Include all types of states, no matter how small or transient.
Your answer must be fully based on the provided text, with no assumptions or inferred states.
Output a list of state names.

🔹Step 1.a: Validate Extracted States
Goal: Confirm the correctness and completeness of Step 1 results.

Prompt:

Here is a list of extracted states from the [procedure name] on the UE side. Validate whether any states are missing, inaccurate, or not grounded in the original text provided below.
Identify each issue clearly.
Only use information explicitly stated in the spec.

🔹Step 1.b: Correct State List
Goal: Use the validation result to revise the state list.

Prompt:

Based on the validation results and the original text, provide a corrected list of all the states for [procedure name] on the UE side.
Only include states explicitly supported by the text.

🔹Step 2: Extract All Transitions
Goal: Identify transitions between the states extracted, including multiple transitions between same states if supported by distinct text.

Prompt:

Using the following list of states and the original 3GPP spec text, extract all state-to-state transitions that are explicitly described in the text.
Each transition should include:

id

from (source state)

to (target state)

metadata, which includes:

section_reference (e.g., "5.3.2.1.6.7")

excerpt (the full sentence or paragraph describing the transition)

Extract every transition, even if multiple go between the same pair of states.

Format:

json
Copy
Edit
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "from": "State_A",
    "to": "State_B",
    "metadata": {
      "section_reference": "5.3.2.1.6.7",
      "excerpt": "UE moves from State A to State B upon receiving XYZ."
    }
  },
  ...
]
🔹Step 2.a: Validate Section References
Goal: Verify that each section reference and excerpt correctly supports its transition.

Prompt:

Given this list of transitions with section references and supporting excerpts, verify that each excerpt and section reference truly supports the stated transition.
Identify any mismatch or missing references.
Do not modify the transitions — just validate the references and excerpts.

🔹Step 2.b: Validate Transitions (One by One)
Goal: Confirm each transition is valid and grounded in the spec, step-by-step.

Prompt (per transition):

Here is a proposed transition:

From: State_A

To: State_B

Section Reference: 5.3.2.1.6.7

Excerpt: "UE moves from A to B upon receiving XYZ."

Does this excerpt fully support this transition? If not, explain why. If yes, confirm its correctness.
Only use the provided excerpt and state list to make your judgment.

🔹Step 3: Enrich Each Transition
Goal: Add semantic detail: event trigger, condition, actions.

Prompt:

For each transition below, extract the following metadata if available in the supporting excerpt or section:

event (what triggers it)

condition (any conditional logic)

entry_action (action upon entering target state)

exit_action (action upon exiting source state)

Use only what’s clearly stated in the original excerpt. If a value is missing, leave it blank or null.

Enriched Format Example:

json
Copy
Edit
{
  "id": 1,
  "from": "State_A",
  "to": "State_B",
  "metadata": {
    "section_reference": "5.3.2.1.6.7",
    "excerpt": "Upon receiving MSG_X, UE transitions from State_A to State_B and starts timer T3510."
  },
  "event": "MSG_X received",
  "condition": null,
  "entry_action": "Start timer T3510",
  "exit_action": null
}
